Less than an hour after the conclusion of the previous film, former hitman John Wick is now a marked man and on the run in Manhattan. After the unsanctioned killing of crime lord and new member of the High Table Santino D'Antonio in the New York City Continental, John is declared "excommunicado" by his handlers at the High Table and placed under a $14 million bounty. On the run from assassins, John reaches the New York Public Library and recovers a crucifix necklace and a "marker" medallion from a secret cache in a book. He fights his way through numerous assassins populating New York City until he reaches The Director, a woman from his past who operates a theater. She accepts the crucifix as a "ticket" for safe passage to Casablanca, Morocco and has Wick branded to signify that he has used up all his favors.

Meanwhile, an adjudicator with the High Table meets with Winston, the manager of the New York City Continental, and the Bowery King, the leader of a network of vagrant assassins. The Adjudicator admonishes both for helping John Wick kill Santino D'Antonio, and both are given seven days to give up their offices or face serious consequences.

In Casablanca, John meets Sofia, a former friend and the manager of the Casablanca Continental. He presents his marker and asks Sofia to honor it by directing him to The Elder, a high-ranking member of the High Table, so that he can ask to have his bounty waived. Sofia takes him to an assassin named Berrada, who tells John that he may find the Elder by wandering through the desert until he cannot walk any longer. In exchange for this information, Berrada asks for one of Sofia's dogs; when Sofia refuses, he injures the dog. In retaliation, Sofia shoots Berrada, and the duo fight their way out of the kasbah and flee into the desert.

Having fulfilled her marker, Sofia leaves John in the desert. He roams until he collapses from exhaustion but is found by The Elder's men. John explains his actions, saying he is desperate to live on to "earn" the memory of the love he once had with his wife. The Elder agrees to forgive John but only if he assassinates Winston and continues to work for the High Table until his death. To show his commitment, John severs his ring finger and gives his wedding ring to The Elder.

Meanwhile, The Adjudicator recruits the assassin Zero and his assassin students to enforce the will of the High Table. With Zero's help, the adjudicator accosts the Director and the Bowery King. As penance, both are maimed, the Bowery King almost fatally. John arrives back in New York City and is pursued by Zero's men, but he escapes to the Continental and takes sanctuary. Zero nearly kills John, but is halted as they arrive at the New York Continental, under threat of being declared excommunicado. Zero reveals himself as a sort of fan of John's, but is brushed aside. John meets with Winston, who encourages John not to die as a killer but as a man who loved and was loved by his wife.

The Adjudicator arrives, but Winston refuses to give up his office, and John refuses to kill Winston. As a consequence, The Adjudicator "deconsecrates" the Continental NYC, revoking its protected neutral ground status. The Adjudicator then notifies Zero and his men and sends two busloads of body-armored High Table enforcers as their support. With the help of the hotel's concierge, Charon, John defends the Continental from the enforcers. At first, the armored enforcers easily kill most of the Continental's guards, but then John and Charon manage to kill them with armor-piercing shotgun shells. John is then ambushed by Zero and his students. John defeats and kills all but two of the students, then fatally wounds Zero.

The Adjudicator negotiates a parley with Winston, who explains the rebellion as a "show of strength" and offers penance to the High Table. John arrives, and when The Adjudicator identifies him as a threat to the negotiation, Winston shoots John repeatedly, causing John to fall off of the Continental's roof. The Continental NYC returns to operation and is “reconsecrated”, but The Adjudicator informs Winston that John's body has disappeared and that he remains a threat for both of them. Meanwhile, a wounded John Wick is delivered to the heavily-scarred Bowery King, who tells John he is angry with the High Table and will be fighting against them. He asks John if he feels the same way, and John agrees.

\n